---
created: 2026-02-06T10:38
modified: 2026-03-07T22:51
---
[[Dailies|Dailies]]
We are testing this daily notes, seeing if it works better than my physical notes since my hands are sore from writing a bit too much.

## Experiments
- [x] Running the experiment `steering-neg` on `coeff = -2.5`. I increased the maximum length to **1024**. ✅ 2026-02-08
- [x] Running `opp-steering-neg`, with `coeff = -2.5`. Glazing the correct answer to see if reducing sycophancy is equal to glaze repulsion. ✅ 2026-02-08
- [x] Running `bias_injection-div`, to bias injection for diversity. ✅ 2026-02-08
- [x] Running `steering-pos-div`, adding sycophancy to diversity. Want to see if sycophancy favor minority groups or discriminate them. ✅ 2026-02-08
Max tokens are set to 1024 for all of the above.
**REMEMBER TO SWAP THE STEERING ONES.**
## Thoughts
**How to make sure that negative steering != glaze repulsion?** I probably need to do some randomization. No. We need to glaze the correct answer, and see if the accuracy decreases. If it decreases, then confirm glaze repulsion.

**Is the sycophancy direction a superset of the bias injection set?** Need to check the overlap.
- Answer: It is not a strict superset. There are 17 questions that bias_injection got wrong but sycophancy got right.
- There are 61 questions, the other way around.
- And finally, 62 questions that both got wrong.

**I should run more evaluation on other datasets.**
- Diversity sounds like it might totally be a sycophancy problem.
- **Does sycophancy favor minority groups? Or the other way around?**
- We are testing on group = refugees. 