[[Dailies|Dailies]]
It is a Sunday, but I still need to work. Need to do more things. I really got to cook. Today, I want to:
- [/] Finish reading the stuff in my reading backlog
- [x] Look through the experiments and plan more experiments ✅ 2026-02-08
- [x] Create the proper results excel sheet ✅ 2026-02-08
## Experiments

1. Running bandwagon steering on higher coefficient of -2.5. The model is less coherent, and does not really follow instructions well. It also a worse decision-maker. Results: it performs best.
2. Glaze repulsion check. Performed really well in terms of accuracy. No glaze repulsion.
3. Diversity group (refugees) are not being mentioned at all by the explanation. Weird. Also, after sycophancy is added, the accuracy increases. I think sycophancy has nothing to do with diversity bias. **Or the other way around... sycophancy repulses minority.**

- [x] Running experiment `opp-steering` to see if sycophancy repulses minority. ✅ 2026-02-09
	- Expected results: accuracy decreases (i.e. actively choose the option that is not a refugee).
	- Accuracy did decrease... sycophancy repulses minority groups
- [x] Running experiment `bias-injection-auth` and `steering-pos-auth` to see the effects of sycophancy in citations. ✅ 2026-02-09
	- We choose to cite the wrong answer + book as the source of citations.
	- Something is wrong with the authority injection. The two datasets that I have are not really the same. Since I don't want to re-run the baseline scores for now, I am using a merged dataset, that only contains **87** examples.
	- Weird results. Sycophancy seems to disfavor authority. The judge puts the fact that the citation is irrelevant as a part of the reasoning on why not choose it
- [x] Running a stronger `opp-steering` to see if the accuracy worsens even more. ✅ 2026-02-09
	- It is brain-damaged as fuck. A lot of repetition. Many nulls. I think they just choose the first one, always.
	- Accuracy decreases by a significant amount though -- unsure if its from actually sycophancy or brain damage.
## Thoughts
- Actually it might be a good idea to do another pass on the dataset, and swap the position, to make sure that positional bias is not affecting the results. Need to filter rows where both runs yield the same answer.
- Remember that `opp_no_bias` for diversity refers to refugees on the right answer. We want to see if sycophancy repulses minorities.