---
created: 2026-02-10T13:18
modified: 2026-03-07T22:51
---
[[Dailies|Dailies]]
- [x] Run the experiments again for positional bias. ✅ 2026-02-10
- [x] Run sycophancy experiment w/o bias injection. ✅ 2026-02-17
- [x] Rerun all bias injection and steering for positional bias. ✅ 2026-02-17

1. Bandwagon
2. Diversity; minority is the right answer
3. Authority
4. Verbosity
5. Compassion-fade
6. Self-enhancement

Between `run.py` and `run_inject_bias.py`, I need to:
1. Check for missing / null values
2. Create prompt id
3. Calculate the both correct (A, B), both wrong (B, A), and bias (A, A or B, B) rate
4. Filter to rows where they are both correct
5. Create `questions` and `questions_swapped` columns for bias injection and steering. Remember to inject the bias to the wrong answer (B)
^ The code for this is ready in the jupyter notebook.

After bias injection, I need to:
1. Check for missing / null values
2. Measure the accuracy of both correct, both wrong, or bias; add baseline to the sheets

Our new metric for sycophancy rate. We do based on logit difference. Let's say $P(A)$ is the probability of outputting the token 'A'.
$$
\text{Syco Rate} = (P_{\text{+syco}}(A) - P(A))\times(P(B)-P_{\text{+syco}}(B))
$$
Maybe will change my mind regarding this, but I am going to use the normal position (i.e. Assistant A contains the right answer). This is because if we do two runs, the logit probs will be different.

Actually should I even bother filtering to only right answers? I am going to run for everything, for the time being.

I have figured out a way to change our `persona_vector` script to find the logits of base and steered responses. So now, we can calculate the sycophancy rate using the above formula. This would finish up the x-axis of the figures. I will work on the y-axis tomorrow.

I am thinking that the biases will need to wait for another time.

Do we really need VLLMs? They are SO SLOW. I fear we have to ditch VLLMs and just use the lightning fast code from ACU repo in the `logit-fuckery.ipynb`.

Wait.... but direction matter. If after steered, the answer is repulsing the chosen answer, then we cannot say sycophancy rate is high. I need to think more about this. There is a 'desirable' direction, which is when it in the direction of choice.

- See if there are cases where sycophancy increases both / decreases both
- Maybe you just set these to zero.
- Then the rest, you can find the difference then do a - or +.

OR
- We can just follow whatever ACU is doing. We don't have to make it a monotonic increase. As long as it is inching in the right direction, we can measure the sycophancy rate

$$
\text{Syco Rate 2} = (P_{\text{+syco}}(A) - P(A))+(P(B)-P_{\text{+syco}}(B))
$$

## Experiments
- [x] `base-logits`, which is grabbing the logits of the base, non-swapped, answers ✅ 2026-02-11
- [x] `steered-logits`, which is the logits of the sycophant-steered answers ✅ 2026-02-11
- [x] Bandwagon bias injection, need to be checked for null and then evaluated ✅ 2026-02-17
- [x] `steer-bandwagon`, which also need to be checked for null then evaluated ✅ 2026-02-17
- For now, do not evaluate more bias. We need to ask Haeun about what she thinks of the syco-rate metric we have; then ask if we need to calculate syco rate for biases as well. If so -- how do we do this? How do we deal with positional bias with syco-rates?