[[Dailies|Dailies]]
Spent yesterday writing down my results in the excel sheet. 
- [<] Use OLMO to get the memorization rate of the question
- [-] Run the verbosity bias ✅ 2026-03-07
## Observations
- Adding random vectors to `baseline`, instead of the sycophancy vector, does not show positional bias. It is split almost fairly towards A and towards B.
- Sycophancy vector favoring A direction (i.e. positional bias) is also seen when bandwagon bias is injected.
- Positional bias skyrocketed without explanation. 
	- For bandwagon bias, without explanation, 83.4% of the answers show positional bias...
	- Not good, since we are losing so many data points. So outputting explanation before the answer is crucial. 
	- Also the answers are way different compared to answers with explanation. 
- After outputting the explanation, sycophancy vector does not favor A direction that much anymore.
	- *But why though...? Why does outputting explanation first matter so much?*
- Some thoughts regarding the sycophancy rate:
	- Sycophancy direction also suffer from positional bias. *i.e.* even after swapped, they favor the same direction as before.
		- [-] <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">Put in the results sheet the proportion of positional biases; and how many favor 'A' and 'B'.</mark> And also whether they initially choose A or B in the actual answer. Is the model becoming more confident or more flipping?
	- For bandwagon bias, the sycophancy rate is more negative than baseline. *Why is this?*
	- Sycophancy rate measures the difference between `baseline` (bias injected, or otherwise) and `sycophant-injected`. Since bandwagon bias is very related to sycophancy, the `sycophant-injected` value is very high, resulting low sycophancy rate.
		- I realized that there is no comparison with the non-bias-injected `baseline-baseline` at all. So we can't say that `bandwagon-baseline` is less sycophantic than `baseline-baseline`. Which is bad.
		- So, instead of measuring how sycophantic an answer is, *e.g.* if `baseline = 'A'` but `syophantic-injected = 'B'` -> sycophancy rate is negative, we measure how steerable it is. 
		- Steerability does not care about negative sycophancy rate. The more `sycophant-injected` token probability changes (whether in the dir. of A or B), the higher its *steerability*. This is a better measurement of how aligned a certain bias is w.r.t. sycophancy direction; and therefore we can compare different biases with `baseline-baseline`.
		- Let's call this new alternative metric *'sycophant alignment rate' (SAR)*, and the SAR value of `bandwagon-baseline` is the highest, which reflects the fact sycophancy degrades the model a lot.
- Familiarity bias is also seen in pair-wise setups. The original paper only talks about point-wise (absolute) scoring setups. I am using pair-wise setup and the AUROC is 0.891, even though the accuracy is only 0.67.
- I thought it would be interesting to see if `ppl_diff` between `PPL(Q + A)` and `PPL(Q + B)` is a good predictor of whether or not the answer will flip after bias injection.
	- **Hypothesis.** If the `ppl_diff` is small, then the answer will more likely to flip after injecting the biases. 
	- **Results.** The relationship holds, but the AUROC is only 0.657. So perplexity is not the entire picture.
- I kinda struggle with framing the hypotheses for tomorrow's meeting. Would be good if we can talk about this.
## Meeting
- [x] Make slides for tomorrow's meeting. Put in the hypothesis -> results. Then maybe sub-hypothesis too. ✅ 2026-02-18
	- In the slides, put the positional bias, and nicely ask Isabelle on what to do with it.
	- Put examples of DPO dataset in the slides.
- [x] Crunch the numbers for negative way too... disregard sycophancy rate for now, unless we find a better way to frame it. ✅ 2026-02-18
- [x] Run experiment to w/o instruct version. Just the baseline for this. We can compare the results with the `baseline-baseline` to see the effects of post-training. ✅ 2026-02-18
- [-] Think about sycophancy rate 3.0. Remember that we don't want the sycophancy direction to favor non-biased answers. That does not make any sense. What is the proportion of data doing this? ✅ 2026-03-07
	- Maybe it's just the direction of A (non-swapped) and direction of B (swapped).
- [x] See if `ppl_diff` is a good predictor of positional bias (rather than flipping). ✅ 2026-02-18

### Main Direction
Effects of post-training on LLM decision-making. 
1. Model prefer a certain option not because of fairness, but because of post-training artifacts (i.e. sycophancy).
2. Impacts of artifacts (i.e. sycophancy) are magnified when there are certain characteristics.