---
created: 2026-02-18T09:49
modified: 2026-03-07T22:51
---
[[Dailies|Dailies]]
OK let's draft out the slides for today's meeting.

Can we even steer the non-instruct version? Without ablation? Sounds a bit wrong.

**Big picture.** Effects of post-training on LLM decision-making. 
- We want to know how LLM make their decision.
- Is it mainly from their post-training (where they are told to prefer certain options), or pre-training? 
- *Sub-goal.* We want to also know where the biases arose from.

*How do we measure the effects of post-training?*
	1. Sycophancy score (*i.e.* how steerable it is)
	2. Perplexity score (should this even be a metric...?)
	3. Token probability changes between instruct and non-instruct version?

*How do we measure the effects of pre-training?*
	1. Memorization rate 

*Dataset*
- DPO questions. Used to measure rate of biases by a prior work.
- Question: You must generate a detailed and long answer. Der Verleih und die Pacht der Be- und... Could you please translate this to English?'
- Answer1: The phrase \"Der Verleih und die Pacht der Be- und...\" appears to be an <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">incomplete German sentence</mark> ... The complete sentence might refer to specific items or services that are being rented or leased.\",
- Answer2: The German phrase \"Der Verleih und die Pacht der Be- und Vermietung\" can be translated to English as \"The rental and leasing of properties, including the letting and subletting of apartments and houses."

**Hypothesis 1.** Model prefer a certain option not because of fairness, but because of post-training artifacts.
**Results.** 
- Sycophancy score, massive suffering from positional bias.
- Perplexity score -> 0.762

**Hypothesis 2.** The impacts of the artifacts are magnified when there are certain characteristics.
**Results.**
*Bandwagon bias*
- Injecting majority chooses the wrong answer. 
- Sycophancy score -> 27.7 (very affected by post-training)
- Perplexity score -> 0.772
*Diversity bias*
- Injecting the minority as the right answer.
- Sycophancy score -> 3.60 (affected by post-training)
- Perplexity score -> 0.803

**What did not work / Curious observations.
1. Making the LLM output only the verdict makes it very vulnerable to positional bias. For bandwagon bias injection, more than 80% of the data points suffer from positional bias.
2. If we only outputs the verdict, adding the sycophancy direction exacerbates the positional bias problem.
3. Even after adding explanation, positional bias is still relatively rampant. 
4. Difference in perplexity is a moderate predictor of bias vulnerability.
	- AUROC: 0.657
5. Difference in perplexity is also also a moderate predictor of positional bias.
	- AUROC: 0.604

**Problem.**
- Actually the AUROC of 0.891 for familiarity bias is after I filter out positional bias... damn. The actual AUROC if we include positional bias cases is lower, at 0.762.
- Is it a good idea to run multiple random runs, and then see how different the sycophant answer is compared to the multiple random runs? To see if it is significant?

## Meeting
Not well. Damn.

We need to find out a good angle to hit here. Initially, we want to see how each step of the training process changes the answers. Can we perhaps characterize what are preferred by the post-training process? Sighs. I think I need to use my notebook for this.